# CECS 450: Semester Project

The purpose of the semester project is to implement the theory we discussed in class with designing, implementing, and evaluating visualization methods. In particular, your project should address a concrete visualization problem and propose a novel, creative solution and its scope and ambition should reflect the roughly 6 weeks you have to work on it. Though the majority of final projects typically involve developing a software artifact, design studies or evaluations of visualization techniques may also be acceptable projects — please talk to the instructor if you have questions.

Projects will be carried out in teams of approximately 3 people. The final deliverable will be an implementation of the proposed solution and a short paper written with the IEEE format. In addition, you will be responsible for participating in a design review and presenting your final results as part of a final project showcase at the end of the semester.

You will be keeping your project data files, R code, Python or other programming language files, and any other relevant documentation (including your write-up) in a git repository. I have included a Google Drive form for you to fill out (once per team, please) which will ask for your group members names, Github usernames, and the project repository. I *must* be added as a contributor to your repository, else your group will lose points.

Prior to starting your project, it is helpful to gain a sense of what goes into formulating a successful visualization project and to beware of common pitfalls. I encourage you to read [A Nested Model for Visualization Design and Validation by Tamara Munzner (PDF)](https://github.com/agiacalone/cecs-450-lab-semester-project/blob/1d7d49df2bce525b5f7d8cff949cde91d62f9424/Munzner%20-%20A%20Nested%20Model%20for%20Visualization%20Design%20and%20Validation.pdf) to get a sense of the issues surrounding bad data design.
